Let's let's talk about student loan, right? Because right now,
one of the big political issues, especially among the left, right?
They want to forgive the student loans and they want to make college free.
Right? That's like a big thing.
Like we have all these students with all this debt and it's, it's bad,
which I agree it's a terrible situation.
But what the left doesn't want to accept is responsibility
for creating this situation in the first place.
It is government's fault that all these student loans exist without government,
there would be no student loans. You know, once upon a time,
people didn't borrow money to go to college.
Nobody borrowed money to go to college. Right. My father, uh,
went to college and his parents were poor. I mean, yeah.
My dad said they weren't sure if they were upper lower class or lower middle
class, but you know, his dad was a carpenter. Um, and, um,
and so he went to college and his parents didn't have any money to send him to
college. And there were no loans. So had my dad go,
he got a summer job and he worked his way through school,
which is what most people did. You work your way through school.
So here's what happened, you know, around the 1960s,
once the 18 year-olds could vote, this was a big thing.
And they lowered the voting age from 21 down to 28, right?
So now you have all these 18 year olds that are about to go to college.
And so here's what the politician said to all the 18 year olds with democratic
politician. They said, you know, you shouldn't have to work your summers.
You shouldn't have to have jobs while you're in school.
You should just be able to go to school and enjoy yourself.
And we're going to make it possible for you to borrow money,
to go to school by guaranteeing the loans,
because normally the bank wouldn't lend you any money.
Cause you have no credit history, you have no assets.
So you're not gonna be able to get a loan.
What you're going to guarantee the loan and that way you'll be able to get the
loan. Now, somebody else won't get it.
Some businessman won't get the loan because we're going to make them loan it to
you. And now you won't have to have that summer job.
And then when you graduate and have a good job, you'll just pay back the money.
And it sounded like a great deal. Hey, I want a party now. I don't want to work.
I'm going to have a good time.
And when I get my college degree and I'm making a lot more money, well,
it'd be no problem that payback the loan. So that's how it all started.
The government came in and they basically created an incentive for banks
to make loans to kids with no assets and no credit history. What year was this?
What year was this?
Maybe got sixties. I don't know the exact year, but anyway. So then,
um, once the colleges saw that all these kids could borrow money
to go to go to college. Well, they were like, this is great.
I'm just going to raise prices. So all of a sudden tuition started to go up.
I mean, for a long time, and you can look back in the future in history,
college tuition used to be pretty stable.
It didn't go up very much until the sixties,
until the government really got involved.
And so as soon as colleges saw that the kids had access to all this
money, they started jacking up prices.
And then of course the university started competing.
Who's got the best gymnasium. Who's got the best housing,
all kinds of other incentives.
And then everything became bloated and they kept raising their prices.
And then in order to get the votes of the students,
the government kept raising the limits on how much loans they would guarantee.
So it became this self perpetuating cycle where the more money the government
guaranteed that the students can borrow,
the more the colleges could charge intuition.
And so tuition kept skyrocketing. And then as tuition goes up, it's like, oh,
nobody could afford to go to college. We need more loans.
So the loans themselves became the reason that people needed the loans because
the loans were wide. College was so expensive.
And so now you need it alone to go to college.
But without the loan tuition would have come down,
you see if there were no student loans at all.
And right now the government has actually taken over.
They don't just guarantee student loans. They loan directly to the students.
If there were no student loans at all,
if the government just said no more student loans,
all of a sudden the colleges would be, oh my God, we need to cut costs.
Otherwise we will have no customers.
Nobody could afford to go without these loans. And they would cut costs.
They would start looking. They would,
they would streamline their business like everybody else. I mean,
any business that could charge whatever the hell they wanted,
because the government could borrow the money. Right?
If you had a restaurant where the government was going to guarantee to,
to pay the bill and everybody who died there, I mean,
the restaurant could charge whatever it wanted. Oh, it's hamburgers.
A thousand dollars. Oh, the government's going to pay y'all what do you care?
You know,
it's because people are paying with their own money that they got to keep the
cost out. And.
This situation has been going on for so long that it's just now how they do
business.
Right? But now see colleges now.
So expensive kids think they need government to afford it.
And they don't realize that the only reason it's so expensive is because of
government. That's the Harry Harry Brown cripple you,
and then give you a crutch. You're free gummy now college. So expensive.
You're free. Give me out, man. Jesus Christ.
Okay. Tell me, get rid of the loans. You know, let,
let colleges lower their tuition.
Well then let people go back to what my dad did like work your way through
college. No big deal. We're.
In this crazy situation where a lot of kids are gonna have to go back to school
through zoom, even Harvard they're there.
They're talking about having these Harvard kids do school online for
$40,000 a year. Wasn't that what you did look
at 40 it's more than 50.
Jamie says $50,000 a year to do school online. That's hilarious.
Education at this point is a racket. I mean,
most people will never recoup the cost of a college degree. I mean,
the colleges are out there perpetuating this myth, right? That you know,
um, going to college is your ticket to success. Then you have to go. And if you,
if you don't go, I think I mentioned the video on your show.
The podcast last time, where I was down on bourbon street in new Orleans.
And I was interviewing all the people there that were working that had college
degrees, but were doing menial jobs. You know,
the bartending bouncers and strip Cubs, petty cab drivers.
They all had college degrees. Some of them had two or three degrees.
And you know, they were doing stuff that, you know,
you didn't need to go to college to do.
And so the colleges perpetuate this myth. Look,
we have the internet today and the access to online classes and self-help,
you can educate yourself.
You don't need to buy this over price certificate that says that you graduated
from some college to prove that you're competent. I mean,
it doesn't even prove anything. Now, in fact, the government did two things.
They made a college degree, very expensive,
and then they made it practically worthless because before the government
started subsidizing college,
fewer people actually went because only the people that could really benefit
from the degree when, and so then if you had a college degree,
it actually meant something in the marketplace. Now,
since everybody goes to school, because of, you know,
you get the money from the government, everybody's got a college degree.
They mean nothing. So now you got to get a master's degree.
You got to get a PhD, you're in school till you're in your thirties.
It's just ridiculous that we spend so much time. It benefits the bureaucracy.
It doesn't benefit the kids. You know? So this bubble,
this is a gigantic bubble in higher education.
This is a bubble in lower education to, you know, I mean,
some of America's wealthiest men, they didn't go to college. You know, in fact,
way back when they didn't even go to high school,
they thought of these billionaires, you know, dropped out of grammar school.
But today with the internet,
it should be even easier for people than it ever was.
Because one of the things that the colleges had is they had the,
they had the libraries, but they had all the books.
So if you wanted to get access to these books, you needed to be,
get into these libraries. Well, it's all on the internet. Now.
They don't have a monopoly on anything, you know, and believe me,
you see how much they charge for these books. It's crazy.
It's such a good point. Professors write these books and they,
and they forced the kids to buy these books,
paying a hundred dollars for a textbook. I mean, it's ridiculous.
It is a racket, right? And it's all supported by government.
And the problem is if you come out against this educational racket,
oh, you're a bad person. You're, anti-education, I'm not a bad person.
I care about the kids who are getting ripped off. We're getting indoctrinated,
not educated and who are being saddled with a mountain of debt. Can I,
the government says the solution is free education, right? If you think, if,
if you think education is expensive now,
where do you see how much more it costs when it's free.